The results of a test planning for a certain project may be documented in:
(A) Test strategy
(B) Test policy
(C) Integration level test plan
(D) Test report
Correct answer: C
Test planning activities are recorded in a master test plan or in separate test plans
for test levels. Hence, C is correct.
A and B are incorrect, because test strategy and test policy are documents more
general than test plans. They describe how and why should testing be conducted
within the whole organization. Any test planning must be aligned with these
documents.
D is incorrect, because test report is a report, not a plan. It summarizes test
activities after they are finished
Question 2.
In developing which type of products it is typical to apply separate software
development life cycle models for each object and a strong emphasis is placed on
the later phases of the software development life cycle after they have been introduced
to operational use?
(A) Internet of Things systems
(B) Commercial off-the-shelf systems
(C) Systems of systems
(D) User interfaces
Correct answer: A
According to syllabus, Internet of Things (IoT) systems, which consist of many
different objects, such as devices, products, and services, typically apply separate
software development life cycle models for each object. This presents a particular
challenge for the development of IoT system versions. Additionally, the software
development life cycle of such objects places stronger emphasis on the later phases
of the software development life cycle after they have been introduced to operational
use (e.g., operate, update, and decommission phases). Hence, A is correct.
B is incorrect, because COTS do not necessarily need to consist of many different
objects.
C is incorrect, because for the systems of systems, it is not necessarily important
to place stronger emphasis on the later phases of the SDLC.
D is incorrect, because user interfaces do not necessarily need to consist of many
different objects so that it would justify to apply separate SDLC models.
Question 3.
Suppose that the code under test contains only one decision shown below.
  IF {CustomerAge > 18 AND TotalAmount > $100} THEN
  Assign a discount
Your tests achieved 100% decision coverage of this code. What is the consequence
of this fact?
(A) We tested at least one situation in which CustomerAge is greater than 18 and at
least one situation in which total amount did not exceed $100.
(B) We tested at least one situation in which customer’s age is greater than 18 and at
least one situation in which customer’s age did not exceed 18.
(C) We tested at least one situation in which a customer was assigned a discount and
at least one in which the discount was not assigned.
(D) We tested at least one situation in which customer’s age did not exceed 18 and at
least one situation in which total amount did not exceed $100.
Correct answer: C
100% decision coverage means that we evaluated the whole decision at least once
to FALSE and at least once to TRUE. The decision has logical form of a conjunction
of two conditions: X AND Y, where X = ”customer age < 18” and Y = ”total
amount > $100.”
Evaluating this decision to TRUE means that the discount was assigned and
evaluating it to FALSE means that the discount was not assigned. Hence, C is correct.
A is incorrect, because we can achieve 100% decision coverage with tests
(X=TRUE, Y=TRUE, decision outcome =TRUE) and (X=FALSE, Y=TRUE,
decision outcome = FALSE), but none of them has Y = FALSE.
B is incorrect, because we can achieve 100% decision coverage with tests
(X¼TRUE, Y¼TRUE, decision outcome TRUE) and (X=TRUE, Y=FALSE,
decision outcome = FALSE), but none of them has X = FALSE.
D is incorrect (see A).
Question 4.
You consider a variable Year, which can accept only positive integer values. From
the specification you know that the complete set of the boundary values for this
variable is as follows: 0, 1, 1976, 1977, 2019, 2020. Which of the following is the
correct equivalence class for this variable?
(A) {2020, 2021, 2022, . . .}
(B) {1, 1976, 1977, 2019, 2020}
(C) {0, 1, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021}
(D) {1, 2, . . ., 2018, 2019}
Correct answer: A
Since the set of boundary values is 1, 1976, 1977, 2019, 2020, and the boundary
values represent minimal and maximal values of equivalence classes, the partitioning
of the domain of Year must be as follows:
{1, 2, ..., 1975, 1976}, {1977, 1978, ..., 2018, 2019}, {2020, 2021, 2022, ...}.
Hence, A is correct.
B and C and incorrect, because boundary value analysis can be applied only to
partitions “without the holes.” This means that if x and y belong to the same
equivalence partition, it follows that all values z such that x <= z <= y must also
belong to the same class. For example, 1 and 1976 belong to the class from B, but
2, 3, . . ., 1975 do not. This class contains only the boundary values and has “holes.”
D is incorrect, because if {1, . . ., 2019} would be an equivalence class, then 1976
and 1977 would not be the boundary values, as they are neither minimal nor maximal
values for this class.
Question 5.
Your project follows a sequential SDLC, which defines only three sequential phases
of testing, as shown in Fig. 9.1. Testing is done only in these three phases.
In each phase, each test will be executed only once. Which of the following is a
set of all possible phases in which we can conduct regression testing?
(A) Test phase 2, Test phase 3
(B) Test phase 1, Test phase 2, Corrections, Test phase 3
(C) Test phase 1, Test phase 2, Test phase 3
(D) Test phase 1, Implementation of changes, Test phase 2, Corrections, Test phase 3
Correct answer: A
Regression test is any test that is executed to detect the unintended side-effects in
case of a fix or a change that has been implemented. This means that the first execution
of a test is not a regression. Since tests can be performed only in the test phases, and
each test is executed only once in each phase, the only possible phases for regression
are Test phase 2 and Test phase 3. Hence, A is correct and B, C, D are incorrect.
Question 6.
You test the application that calculates the risk of a patient’s brain hemorrhage (low
or high) based on three conditions: age {young or old}, does the patient take the
medicines {yes or no}, and did he have a stroke {yes or no}. The rules are as follows:
  • If the patient is young and takes the medicines, the risk is low.
  • If the patient is old and did not have a stroke, the risk is low.
  • Otherwise, the risk is high.
What is the minimal number of columns in the collapsed decision table for this
problem?
(A) 2
(B) 3
(C) 4
(D) 6
Correct answer: C
The full decision table is shown below (Table 15.1).
We can collapse columns 1 and 2 (Condition 3 is irrelevant), 6 and 8 (Condition
2 is irrelevant), 3 and 4 (Condition 3 is irrelevant), and finally, 5 and 7 (Condition
2 is irrelevant). Hence, we obtain the collapsed table with only 4 columns
(Table 15.2).
It is easy to observe that we cannot minimize the table with less than 4 columns.
Hence, the correct answer is C.
Question 7.
You need to execute the following test cases in functional and performance areas:
  TC1: functional test with high priority
  TC2: performance test with high priority
  TC3: functional test with low priority
  TC4: functional test with high priority
  TC5: performance test with low priority
The test strategy assumes that covering each area with at least one test as quickly
as possible is the most important criterion. The less important criterion says that the
tests should follow their priorities.
Which of the following is the most reasonable test execution ordering that follows
this strategy?
(A) TC2, TC3, TC5, TC1, TC2
(B) TC1, TC4, TC3, TC2, TC5
(C) TC5, TC3, TC2, TC1, TC4
(D) TC1, TC2, TC4, TC3, TC5
Correct answer: D
The strategy implies that within the first two tests, we should cover functional and
performance area. As we also have the priority criterion, these two tests should have
the highest priority. For the next three tests, we should care only about the priority, as
the first criterion will be fulfilled with the first two tests. Hence, D is correct: TC1 and
TC2 cover both area and have high priority. TC4 has high priority. The last two tests,
TC3 and TC5, have low priority.
A is incorrect, because TC3 should be replaced with functional test with high
priority—otherwise, the first criterion is not fulfilled.
B is incorrect, because the ordering is done in a way such that the second criterion
is more important than the first one: first we execute high priority tests and then low
priority tests.
C is incorrect, because the second criterion is not fulfilled: first we execute low
priority tests and then high priority tests. We should do the opposite.
Question 8.
Which of the following best describes the test basis?
(A) Information used as the basis for achieving specific test objective
(B) Information used as the basis for test monitoring and control
(C) Information used as the basis for the oracle when determining the expected result
(D) Information used as the basis for test analysis and design
Correct answer: D
A is incorrect, because this is the definition of the test condition, not the test basis.
B is incorrect, because monitoring and control uses information from the test
plans rather than information from the test basis.
C is incorrect—although a test oracle may analyze test basis in order to derive the
expected results, this would narrow the concept of the test basis, which is used
primarily by a tester in order to achieve practically any kind of a test objective.
Question 9.
You test a state transition machine given by the state transition table shown in
Table 9.1. The initial and final states are, respectively, S1 and S6.
What is the minimal number of test cases to achieve transition {0-switch}
coverage?
(A) 1
(B) 2
(C) 3
(D) 4
Correct answer: C
The graphical model of a state machine corresponding to the given transition table
is presented in Fig. 15.1. To cover 0-switches (i.e., to cover all the transitions), we
need three test cases. Notice that if a test case covers the transition (S1, E1, S2), we
cannot return to S1 and cover (S1, E2, S3) within the same test, as there is no
possibility of returning to the initial state. Hence, we need at least two test cases:
  TC1—that goes from S1 to S2
  TC2—that goes from S1 to S3
TC2 can continue only through S4 to S6. TC1 can go from S2 to S5 or to S4, but
notice that it cannot cover both transitions (S2, E1, S5) and (S2, E3, S4). Therefore,
we need one more test TC3. The final set of all three test cases is as follows:
  TC1—S1 ! E1 ! S2 ! E1 ! S5 ! E3 ! S4 ! E2 ! S6
  TC2—S1 ! E2 ! S3 ! E1 ! S4 ! E2 ! S6
  TC3—S1 ! E1 ! S2 ! E3 ! S4 ! E2 ! S6
As three tests are needed, C is correct and A, B and D are incorrect.
Question 10.
Which of the following, according to the Foundation Level Syllabus, is an example
of a tool used by a tester rather than a developer?
(A) A tool that calculates cyclomatic complexity and other code metrics
(B) A tool that calculates statement coverage achieved by the unit tests executed
(C) A tool that compares the content of two files
(D) A dynamic analysis tool
Correct answer: C
A tool that compares two files is an example of a comparator. Comparators are
used by testers rather than developers, hence C is correct.
A and B are incorrect, because these are the examples of code-level tools related
to component testing. They are beneficial to developers rather than to testers.
D is incorrect, because, as per syllabus, the dynamic analysis tools are used more
often by the developers than the testers.
Question 11.
Typically, the person responsible for fixing the defect in the artifact under test is:
(A) Artifact’s author
(B) Tester
(C) Debugger
(D) Client
Correct answer: A
Debugging searches, analyzes, and removes the defects from the artifact being
debugged. So, typically, it is the author who performs these activities, as he knows
this artifact best. If this is a code, then debugging is usually done by the developer.
Hence, A is correct.
B is incorrect, because testers test, and testing has nothing to do with debugging.
C is incorrect, because a debugger is a tool, not a person.
D is incorrect, because debugging is a technical activity done within the technical
phases of SDLC—client do not take part in these activities.
Question 12.
The block diagram shown in Fig. 9.2 presents an algorithm for computing the mean
value of the set of N numbers given by the user as an input.
What is the decision coverage for this program achieved by the following suite of
two tests?
  TC1: User enters N = 299.
  TC2: User enters N = 0.
(A) 1/2
(B) 5/6
(C) 7/10
(D) 2/3
Correct answer: D
We have three decisions in the code:
D1: N > 100
D2: K > N
D3: N = 0
Hence, we have 6 different decision outcomes to cover: TRUE and FALSE for
each of D1, D2, D3.
TC1 (input N = 299) goes through D1 and immediately terminates returning
error, because D1 is evaluated as TRUE, as 299 > 100.
TC2 (input N = 0) goes through D1, which is evaluated as FALSE (because 0 is
not greater than 100), then moves to D2, which is evaluated as TRUE (because
1 > 0), and finally moves to D3, which is also evaluated as TRUE (because 0 = 0).
The following table summarizes the decision outcomes coverage by these two
tests (Table 15.3).
As we can see, our test suite covers 4 different outcomes out of 6 possible
decision outcomes in the code. Hence, the coverage is 4/6 = 2/3, so D is correct
and A, B, C are incorrect.
Question 13.
Which of the following work products is the best candidate to perform a static
analysis on it?
(A) Architectural design
(B) Test plan
(C) Requirement specification
(D) Source code
Correct answer: D
Static analysis is a synonym of automated static testing. This method is done
using a tool and is more applicable at code level rather than other work products such
as requirements or other documents. Hence, D is correct. An example of a static
analysis may be automated computation of software code metrics, like cyclomatic
complexity.
A, B, and C are incorrect, because these are the examples of documents, not
the code.
Question 14.
In what way do static and dynamic techniques complement each other?
(A) They are applied at different test levels.
(B) Static techniques don’t use tools, while dynamic techniques use them.
(C) They are performed by different roles.
(D) They find different types of defects.
Correct answer: D
Foundation syllabus notices that static and dynamic techniques have the same
objectives, such as providing an assessment of the quality of the work products and
identifying defects as early as possible. But they complement each other by finding
different types of defects. Static techniques are able to find design defects, which are
hard to find when performing dynamic testing. Dynamic testing, on the other hand, is
able to find failures, which is not possible with static techniques, as static techniques
do not work on a running software. Hence, D is correct.
A is incorrect, because both static and dynamic techniques can be applied on the
same test levels. For example, both component review and unit testing can be
conducted on a component testing level.
B is incorrect, because part of static techniques—static analysis—uses tools.
On the other hand, we can perform manual dynamic testing, so we do not need to
use tools in this approach.
C is incorrect, because both static and dynamic testing can be performed by tester
(reviews, system testing) or by developer (static analysis, unit testing).
Question 15.
Consider the following two test reports:
  TEST REPORT 1
  Module: browseCatalog
  # test cases planned vs. implemented: 56/54
  # test cases executed {pass/fail/blocking/other}: 54 {34/10/2/8}
  Decision coverage {required}: 56% {50%}
  Condition coverage {required}: 77% {70%}
  Blocking test cases id: TC004-34, TC-004-50
What is the best audience for these reports?
(A) Test report 1 is better for a client, and test report 2 is better for a test automation
engineer.
(B) Test report 1 is better for the IT director, and test report 2 is better for a
developer.
(C) Test report 1 is better for a client, and test report 2 is better for a tester.
(D) Test report 1 is better for a tester, and test report 2 is better for a client.
Correct answer: D
The report’s abstraction level should be adjusted to the audience and the report’s
objective. Test report 1 is clearly a technical report, including many detailed metrics
and information about particular test cases. It is more suited for a test team. Test report
2 presents the summative, aggregated, high-level information about test project status.
Hence, it is more suited for high level management or client. Therefore, D is correct.
A and C are incorrect, because client will usually be completely not interested in
technical details about the testing activities.
B is incorrect, because IT director will usually not be interested in a low-level
information about some sub-process within a development process of one of the
projects conducted in the company.
Question 16.
The quality of the specification, size of the product, and complexity of the product
domain are the factors that affect:
(A) Skills of the team members
(B) Tools used by the testers
(C) Test effort
(D) Stability of the organization
Correct answer: C
These are the typical factors influencing the test effort. Hence, C is correct.
A, B, and D are incorrect, because these are the examples of another factors
influencing the test effort.
Question 17.
Which of the following is a test type?
(A) Code review
(B) System testing
(C) Functional testing
(D) Boundary value analysis
Correct answer: C
There are three main test types mentioned by a Foundation Level Syllabus. These
are:
  • functional tests—checking “what” a system does
  • nonfunctional tests—checking “how” a system does something
  • white-box tests—checking different properties basing on the knowledge of the
internal software structure
Hence, C is correct. A and D are the examples of test techniques. B is a test level.
Question 18.
Which of the following is not a trigger for maintenance testing?
(A) Migration of the software from one platform to another
(B) Retirement of the software, so that data-archiving process needs to be tested
(C) Acquisition of a new test automation framework
(D) A need to test the emergency fix
Correct answer: C
C is correct, because acquisition of a tool for supporting some process activities is
not related to the software maintenance process, so it is not a trigger for performing
the maintenance testing.
A, B, and D are enumerated in the syllabus as triggers for maintenance testing, so
they are incorrect.
Question 19.
Select the sentence that correctly explains the issue of using test techniques during
the exploratory testing session.
(A) All test techniques are allowed, because exploratory testing does not impose on
tester any particular way of acting.
(B) All test techniques are forbidden, because exploratory testing is based on
knowledge, intuition, and experience.
(C) All test techniques are forbidden, because exploratory testing is not a scripted
testing and test actions cannot be planned in advance.
(D) All test techniques are allowed, because exploratory tester needs to have a test
basis from which he derives test ideas.
Correct answer: A
Exploratory testing utilizes tester’s knowledge, intuition and experience, but
gives him a whole room of maneuver for performing his actions. It does not matter
if and which techniques he will use—the most important thing is to be effective in
finding defects. So, although usually exploratory testing do not use any formal test
techniques, it is possible for exploratory tester to use very formal, scripted testing
during exploratory testing session. Hence, A is correct.
B and C are incorrect, because using test techniques in exploratory testing is not
forbidden (see A).
D is incorrect. Although using testing techniques is allowed, it is not that we must
use them to derive test cases. Exploratory testers usually do not design test cases, but
test the software “on-line,” in an interactive way. Their future actions are usually
based on the current program behavior, their intuition, and experience.
Question 20.
Which of the following is an example of an error?
(A) One of the source code instruction is ‘x := x + 1’, but it should be ‘x := y + 1’.
(B) A tester makes a mistake and introduces a defect into the test script.
(C) A software crashes because of overheating of the processor
(D) An ATM machine should dispense $10, but it dispended $20.
Correct answer: B
An error is a human action that produces an incorrect result. A person can make
an error (mistake), which can lead to the introduction of a defect (fault, bug) in the
software code or in some other related work product. If a defect in the code is
executed, this may cause a failure. Failures can also be caused by environmental
conditions.
A is incorrect, because this is an example of a defect in the code, not a (human)
error.
C is incorrect, because this is an example of a failure due to environmental
conditions.
D is incorrect, because this is an example of a failure: a system does not perform a
required function.
Question 21.
Which of the following is a part of the “initiate review” activity?
(A) Selecting the people to participate in the review and allocating roles
(B) Gathering metrics
(C) Answering any questions that participants may have about the review
(D) Defining the purpose of the review, what document to review, and the quality
characteristics to be evaluated
Correct answer: C
A and D are incorrect, because they are part of the planning activities.
B is incorrect, because metrics are gathered for more formal review types within
the “fixing and reporting” activity.
Question 22.
A test team has decided about which test tool should be selected. The tool was
bought. What should be the next step?
(A) The test team should conduct a pilot project in some part of the organization.
(B) The test manager should introduce the tool in the whole organization.
(C) The test team should evaluate the tool vendor in terms of the training, support,
and commercial aspects.
(D) The test manager should evaluate the tool against clear requirements and
objective criteria.
Correct answer: A
As per syllabus, after the tool acquisition, a pilot project should be performed.
Hence, A is correct.
B is incorrect (see A).
C and D are incorrect, as these activities are done during the test selection process.
Question 23.
Which of the following is an example of a benefit from independent testing?
(A) Isolation from the development team.
(B) Unbiasness of the testers.
(C) Independent testers can work from a different location.
(D) It is cheaper than testing in a situation, where there are no independent testers.
Correct answer: B
Independent testers see other and different defects, and are unbiased, since they
do not test their own products. Hence, B is correct.
A is incorrect, because isolation from the development team is a drawback, not a
benefit.
C is incorrect, because this is just one of the organizational ways of working and
does not explain directly any benefit or drawback.
D is incorrect. Although independent testing may be cheaper, usually it is not.
Nevertheless, the cost is not the main reason of why independent testing is used.
Question 24.
Test conditions are exercised by which of the following test artifacts?
(A) Risk items
(B) Test cases
(C) Requirements
(D) Test data
Correct answer: B
Per syllabus, test cases are designed and executed to exercise test conditions
defined in test analysis. Hence, B is correct.
A is incorrect, because test conditions may be derived from the risk item, not
exercised.
C is incorrect, because requirements may be used to derive test conditions, not to
exercise them.
D is incorrect, because test data is just a part of a test case, which exercises test
conditions.
Question 25.
You design a set of test cases to cover a use case having 11 steps in which 3 different
exceptions can occur: E1, E2, and E3. Exception E1 occurs in steps 4, 8, and 9, and
E2 in steps 3 and 4. Exception E3 occurs in all steps with the occurrence of at least
one other exception, and in no other steps.
How many test cases should be designed to achieve the coverage of this use case,
according to the use case coverage defined in the Foundation Level Syllabus?
(A) 12
(B) 9
(C) 10
(D) 11
Correct answer: C
From the question stem we know that the exceptions may occur in the following
steps:
  Step 3—exceptions E2 and E3
  Step 4—exceptions E1, E2 and E3
  Step 8—exceptions E1 and E3
  Step 9—exceptions E1 and E3.
Therefore, we need 1 test case for the main scenario (use case flow with no
exceptions) and 9 test cases for testing each of the 9 occurrences of the exceptions
E1, E2, and E3. Altogether, we need 1+9=10 test cases. Hence, C is correct and A,
B, D are incorrect.
Question 26.
In the last few days, all the test team members were trying to figure out why a strange
failure occurs in the software. Unfortunately, no one has any idea about that. It was
decided that the test team will “simulate the compiler,” which will take form of some
dry runs of a software, in order to understand what exactly happens in the code.
Which review type would be the most appropriate for this activity?
(A) Inspection
(B) Informal review
(C) Technical inspection
(D) Walkthrough
Correct answer: D
Walkthroughs may take form of a dry run, so that the review team will gain
understanding about the way the software works. Hence, D is correct and A, B, C are
incorrect.
Question 27.
Assign examples of defects/failures to the phases, in which these defects/failures are
most likely to be discovered.
1—Unreachable code
2—Data sent from one component as parameters of some API call are understood by
the receiving component in wrong order
3—Application does not round the result when multiplying two values
(A) 1—system testing. 2—component testing. 3—acceptance testing
(B) 1—component testing. 2—system testing. 3—acceptance testing
(C) 1—system testing. 2—acceptance testing. 3—integration testing
(D) 1—component testing. 2—integration testing. 3—system testing
Correct answer: D
Defect 1—unreachable code—is most likely to be discovered during the component
testing, as in this phase we have access to the code. During higher-level testing
we usually don’t have this access, and since code is unreachable, we will never
detect this fact.
Failure 2 describes some data flow between two components, so this is a
communication issue. Hence, Failure 2 will be most likely detected during the
integration testing, as this type of testing focuses solely on the integration and
communication issues, not the components themselves.
Failure 3 describes a problem with wrong realization of a functional requirement.
These kinds of failures are usually discovered during the system testing. At this
level, the software is fully integrated, so we are able to perform tests that check
functional and nonfunctional requirements.
Hence, D is correct and A, B, C are incorrect.
Question 28.
Which standard describes the testing process as a multilayer model?
(A) IEEE 829
(B) ISO/IEC/IEEE 29119
(C) ISO/IEC/IEEE 25000
(D) ISO 9126
Correct answer: B
ISO/IEC/IEEE 29119—“Software Testing Standard” is a standard which—in its
second part—describes the software testing process as a multi-layer model that
consists of three layers: Organizational test process, Test management processes
and Dynamic test processes. Hence, B is correct.
A is incorrect, because IEEE 829 is a test documentation standard.
C and D are incorrect, because ISO 9126 and ISO/IEC/IEEE 25000 (which
replaced ISO 9126) are the standards for software quality, not for testing processes.
Question 29.
In a checklist-based approach, a checklist used by a tester may include:
(A) An excerpt from the test plan describing test levels and test types defined in the
project
(B) A list of typical functional defects that were found in the previous versions of a
software
(C) A list of tools that should be bought prior to introducing the automation project
(D) Nielsen heuristics that describe the desired usability characteristics of a software
Correct answer: D
A checklist in a checklist-based approach should contain a list of test conditions,
that is, the things that may be verified by a tester. Usability characteristics are a good
example of such the test conditions. Such the checklist could be used during the
usability testing.
A is incorrect, because information about test levels and test types is useless for a
tester in this moment.
B is incorrect, because lists of defects are used in a fault attack technique, which is
a structured approach to the error-guessing technique, not a checklist-based
approach.
C is incorrect, because such checklist may be helpful as an organizational tool in a
test automation project, but not in checklist-based testing. It does not inform us what
should be tested.
Question 30.
Which of the following items can be identified when using a test technique?

 I) Test conditions
 II) Test cases
 III) Test data

(A) I}, II}, and III}
(B) Only I} and II}
(C) Only I}
(D) Only II} and III}
Correct answer: A
Test technique is a procedure to derive and/or select test cases. Test cases are
derived from test conditions and contain test data. Hence, test technique must be able
to identify test conditions, test cases, and test data (see Syllabus, Sect.4.1.). Hence, A
is correct.
B, C, and D are incorrect—see above.
Question 31.
You are responsible for functional testing of the new mobile application for tourists.
The application allows a user to plan a route, modify it, read info about the
monuments, etc. All these functional requirements are documented in a form of
the use cases. Together with your team, you are planning to perform a review of the
application regarding its functionality. Which review type will probably be the most
beneficial in this case?
(A) Scenarios and dry runs
(B) Checklist based
(C) Perspective based
(D) Role based
Correct answer: A
With scenario-based reviewing, reviewers are provided with structured guidelines
on how to read through the work product. Where requirements, designs, or tests are
documented in a suitable format (e.g., use cases, as in our scenario), a scenario-based
approach supports reviewers in performing “dry runs” on the work product based on
expected usage of the work product. These scenarios provide reviewers with better
guidelines on how to identify specific defect types than simple checklist entries. This
makes the option A most reasonable.
B is incorrect, because there are no checklists mentioned in the scenario.
C and D are incorrect, because they focus on roles and perspectives—they are not
based on the use cases.
Question 32.
Choose the best example of a failure that results from the following root cause: 
”a low quality of a functional requirement specification.”
(A) Functional requirement specification cannot be a subject to a review process.
(B) A bank system incorrectly calculates interest rate.
(C) System response time is too long when more than 100 users are logged to the
system at the same time.
(D) The requirement id number does not follow the numbering rules accepted and
used in the organization.
Correct answer: B
B is correct, because incorrect calculation is a failure, which may result from the
low quality of the requirement specification (e.g., specification may be unclear or
wrong about the rules for interest rate calculation).
A is incorrect, because every document can be reviewed. Besides, this is not an
example of a failure.
C is incorrect, because this failure is more due to some problems with the
nonfunctional requirements.
D is incorrect, because—although the root cause can result in this situation—
wrong document’s id is an example of a defect, not a failure.
Question 33.
Let D, C, T denote respectively:
• Number of defects found in the software
• Size of the software {in Lines of Code}
• Time used for testing
Which metric measures the defect density?
(A) C / D
(B) D / T
(C) D / C
(D) D / C * T
Correct answer: C
Defect density is the number of defects per software volume. Hence, C is correct.
B is a defect frequency. A and D have no reasonable meaning.
Question 34.
You test a function isLeapYear which takes a positive integer X as input and returns
TRUE if X is a leap year or FALSE otherwise. The specification defines the leap year
in the following manner: “A year is a leap year if it is divisable by 4 with exception
of begin divisible by 100 and not divisible by 400.” For example:
• 2003 is not a leap year, because it is not divisible by 4.
• 2004 is a leap year, because it is divisible by 4 and not divisible by 100.
• 2100 is not a leap year, because it is divisible by 4 and 100, but not by 400.
• 2400 is a leap year, because it is divisible by 4, 100 and 400.
You test the domain of the isLeapYear function (the set of all positive integers) and
you want to apply a 2-point boundary value analysis to verify if it calculates the leap year
correctly. What is the minimal number of test cases to achieve 100% BVA coverage?
(A) 2.
(B) 4.
(C) It is impossible to achieve 100% coverage.
(D) 5.
Correct answer: C
This is a tricky question. It is impossible to achieve full BVA coverage, because
there are an infinite number of equivalence classes: {1, 2, 3}, {4}, {5, 6, 7}, {8}, {9,
10, 11}, {12}, and so on. To cover all the boundary values with the 2-point BVA, we
would have to test the values 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, and so on. Hence, C is correct
and A, B, D are incorrect.
It is an interesting example of a problem for which in order to apply the BVA
analysis, we need to reformulate it in terms of the standard equivalence partitioning
technique. The natural test idea here is to check the behavior of the isLeapYear on
the different types of boundaries. Let A, B, C, D denote respectively:
  • A = a year not divisible by 4 (non-leap year)
  • B = a year divisible by 4 and not divisible by 100 (leap year),
  • C = a year divisible by 4 and 100, but not by 400 (non-leap year),
  • D = a year divisible by 4, 100 and 400 (leap year).
The different “boundaries” to check are as follows:
  • Two consecutive years of types A and A (e.g., 2001 and 2002)
  • Two consecutive years of types A and B (e.g., 2003 and 2004)
  • Two consecutive years of types A and C (e.g., 2099 and 2100)
  • Two consecutive years of types A and D (e.g., 2399 and 2400)
  • Two consecutive years of types B and A (e.g., 2004 and 2005)
  • Two consecutive years of types C and A (e.g., 2100 and 2101)
  • Two consecutive years of types D and A (e.g., 2400 and 2401)
Notice that there are no other possible sequences of types for two consecutive
years. Now, we can partition the set of all possible years into seven equivalence
partitions, reflecting the above mentioned “boundaries”:
  1. Years of type A such that their successors are of type A
  2. Years of type A such that their successors are of type B
  3. Years of type A such that their successors are of type C
  4. Years of type A such that their successors are of type D
  5. Years of type B such that their successors are of type A
  6. Years of type C such that their successors are of type A
  7. Years of type D such that their successors are of type A
Now we can apply the equivalence partitioning for this partition. In this way, we
can check all possible “boundaries,” that is, all possible sequences of the types of
two consecutive years. The seven example years may be: 2001, 2003, 2099, 2399,
2004, 2100, 2400.
Question 35.
Select the correct statement about the objectives of testing.
(A) Testing objectives may vary depending upon the context of the system
under test.
(B) One of the testing objectives is to correct defects raised during the development
process.
(C) During the acceptance testing, the main objective is to cause as many failures as
possible.
(D) During the acceptance testing, the main objective is to gain confidence in the
system.
Correct answer: A
Testing objectives are not “carved in stone” for every possible project. As testing
is context dependent, its objectives vary depending upon the context. B is incorrect,
because correcting defects is a debugging, not testing activity. C and D are incorrect,
because we cannot say in general what is the main objective of a given test phase—it
always depends on the context, stakeholders, project constraints, and many other
factors.
Question 36.
You follow the 2-point boundary value analysis for testing the following
requirement:
  A system receives an input value X from the set {1, 2, . . ., 100} of integers. It
  is not possible to force as an input the values outside this range. If X is greater
  than 90, the system returns a message “student passed with distinctions.” Else,
  if X is greater than 50, the system returns a message “student passed.” In any
  other case, the system returns “student failed.”
 You define the equivalence classes for X regarding the system’s output. You have
already prepared the test suite that covers 2-point boundary value analysis. However,
your manager was told that your team has some additional time and he decides that
instead of 2-point, you will follow the 3-point boundary value analysis for this problem.
How many additional test cases you have to design?
(A) 3
(B) 4
(C) 6
(D) 8
Correct answer: C
The equivalence partitioning for X is as follows:
  • {1, 2, ..., 49, 50} for the output “student failed”
  • {51, 52, ..., 89, 90} for the output “student passed”
  • {91, 92, ..., 99, 100} for the output “student passed with distinctions”
As we already have the tests that cover all the boundary values for the 2-point
boundary value analysis, we know that these values must be 1, 50, 51, 90, 91, and
100. To cover the boundary values for the 3-point boundary value analysis, we need
to take both neighbors for each boundary. These are:
  • 1 and 2 for boundary value 1
  • 49, 50, 51 for boundary value 50
  • 50, 51, 52 for boundary value 51
  • 89,90, 91 for boundary value 90
  • 90, 91, 92 for boundary value 91
  • 99, 100 for boundary value 100
Notice that we do not consider values like 0 or 101, because from the specification,
we know that it is impossible to force inputs that lie outside the set {1, 2, . . .,
99, 100}. So, in 3-point boundary value analysis, we need to cover points 1, 2,
49, 50, 51, 52, 89, 90, 91, 92, 99, 100. We have already covered 1, 50, 51, 90,
91, and 100. Hence, the missing test cases are for the values 2, 49, 52, 89, 92, and
99, so we need 6 more test cases. Hence, C is correct and A, B, and D are incorrect.
Question 37.
Building a state machine of the System Under Test and deriving from it the tests that
cover all 1-switches is an example of which test strategy?
(A) Analytical
(B) Methodical
(C) Process compliant
(D) Model based
Correct answer: D
A state machine is a model that describes some aspect of the product under test.
The coverage criterion drives the tester in designing the test cases from this model.
Hence, this is a typical model-based approach and D is correct.
A is incorrect, because in the analytical approach, the test strategy is based on an
analysis of some factor, for example, risk or requirements.
B is incorrect, because in the methodical approach, a tester uses some predefined
set of tests or test conditions, such as a methodical checklist of common or likely
types of failure, or a standard set of tests.
C is incorrect, because in the process-complaint strategy a tester follows some
external standard.
Question 38.
Your organization uses the following structure of the defect reports for the projects
following an iterative life cycle model:
  • Defect report id, tester’s name
  • Version of the environment and product used
  • Bug description
  • Bug type {selected from a drop-down list}
  • Iteration in which the defect was discovered
  • Severity
  • Steps to reproduce
The defect reports are stored in a central repository, which can be used to produce
different reports, statistics, and so on. In what way such a repository can help test
manager to track the quality of the system?
(A) By creating an aggregated report of the number of defects broken by bug types
(B) By performing a detailed analysis of bug descriptions and steps to reproduce the
bugs
(C) By analyzing the number of defects (together with their severity) found in the
consecutive iterations
(D) By arranging the bugs in the severity order, filtering out the ones with the low
severity, and calculating the number of the high severity bugs raised by each
tester
Correct answer: C
Analyzing the trend of number of defects raised in time allows us to track the
progress in system quality. If the testing process works correctly, the number of
defects should decrease in time. The decrease rate may be an indicator when it is
reasonable to stop testing and release the product. Hence, C is correct.
A is incorrect, because bug classification will not help us in tracking the system
quality.
B is incorrect, because it is usually impossible to analyze all the bug descriptions;
besides, the whole point of using a reporting system is the ability to create the
summative, aggregated reports that can show us interesting trends or statistics.
D is incorrect, because this information says nothing about the quality itself.
Rather it is some information related to the individual testers.
Question 39.
Which of the following is the best example of a quality assurance activity not related
to the quality control?
(A) Defining requirement engineering process in a way that ensures the requirements
are defined at the proper level of detail
(B) Measuring the product to give information about its quality, so that managers
can undertake conscious decisions about the product and project
(C) Conducting the inspection for an architectural design to detect as many architectural
defects as possible
(D) Raising a defect report through the defect management system
Correct answer: A
Quality assurance, in general, is a set of activities that prevent bugs from
occurrence in the product. Therefore, quality assurance usually focuses on process
elements of an organization. One example of such activity is defining a proper
process for requirements definition, so that they are defined at the proper level of
detail. This will reduce the risk that the bugs occur due to low quality of the
requirement specification. Hence, A is correct.
B is incorrect, because measuring the process is a typical control activity,
belonging to the testing process—so it is part of a quality control.
C is incorrect, because inspections are the static testing techniques, so inspections
are also a typical part of quality control activities.
D is incorrect, because raising a defect report is a typical tester’s task, related to
the result of the control process. Hence, as B and C, this is also the part of quality
control activities.
Question 40.
Which of the following is an example of a quality risk?
(A) The project will be delayed due to short staffing.
(B) The system will work slowly due to an ineffective implementation.
(C) The software will return a wrong result due to inaccuracies in computations.
(D) The application will not provide the full functionality to a user due to lack
of time.
Correct answer: B
Quality risk is a product risk that is associated with specific quality characteristics
of a product. A poor performance is a typical risk related to the quality characteristic,
hence B is true.
A is incorrect, because this is an example of a project risk, not a product risk
(hence, not a quality risk).
C and D are incorrect, because they are the examples of the functional risks, so
these are not the quality issues.